reports suggest that nvidia's 590 Mega
do will be up to 25% faster dude this is
what I've been waiting for why are you
waiting you could buy like a sick gaming
rig right now for just a g yeah that's
so last gen this is going to be worth
the wait in other news tariffs on
electronics that are manufactured
outside of the United States so almost
all of them are expected to result in
major price hikes oh no what now what am
I going to do should I build a computer
now or should I wait for NextGen that's
a great question viewer yes you and it's
one we see all the time especially
around big CPU or GPU launches and while
the answer would normally be to plan a
manageable budget for yourself and
upgrade whenever your current system is
no longer meeting your needs with those
potential tariffs inbound things could
get a little more complicated especially
for our American friends but there is
some good news because believe it or not
this isn't the first time that we run
into this type of consumer taxation so
we only need to look at the recent past
to understand how tariffs could impact
our purchases be they on PC parts
washing machines or even merch on LTT
store I hope things don't go down this
path I want a 50 Series GPU but if this
new tax comes into effect now could be a
really Savvy time to buy a PC rather
than waiting let's break it down and
break down this segue to our sponsor War
Thunder if you're into vehicle combat
games War Thunder is super comprehensive
easy to get into and available on PC
consoles and mobile devices play for
free using the link in the video
description reason number one to pull
the trigger now is you know what you're
getting as cliche as it sounds until
there are third party reviews we don't
really know what's coming down the pipe
sometimes the pre-launch rumors end up
being pretty accurate but other times
they aren't and it can be a pretty poopy
feeling to wait sometimes months for a
pot at the end of the rainbow that turns
out to be Fool's Gold number two it's Q4
baby T the season for inventory
management and as we outlined in our
holiday buyer guide you can pick up a
machine that will handle any AAA game
out there for less than you'd probably
think and in our recent review of the
AMD ryzen 9800 X 3D we found that even
an older am4 and ddr4 system is still
very capable of modern gaming and can
save you a ton of money money that can
be spent on a better GPU for enhanced
visuals and guys I know what you're
going to say buying an older CPU
platform can limit your future upgrades
but look at this we asked our staff here
what parts they usually upgrade before
they just give in and get a whole new
platform and while 40% said GPU the cold
hard truth is that most people don't
won't upgrade their CPUs which leads us
to reason number three how often do you
really need to upgrade your PC even our
team of very techy gamery folks seems to
be on about a 2 to threee cycle just
enough time to buy now and hopefully
wait out the future tariff storm ah yes
the dreaded t-word to find out more
about tariffs and how they might impact
pricing I asked Elijah who wrote this
video to ask Taran who has a friend who
worked in the PC hardware supply chain
last time a US Administration peaked at
uh Brazil's homework and thought hm that
seems like a good idea he explained it
to me by laying out two different
scenarios imagine I'm Walmart I'm buying
a 590 at a bulk price of $100 and I'm
going to sell them for
$125 I make a tidy profit and you get
your GPU that's scenario one without any
tariffs now for scenario 2 let's say a
flat 50% tariff is applied to a country
where I purchased the GPU from I reach
out to order some more and there's a
extra little line on my invoice 50% of
the value of what my order was now I
couldn't sell it for 125 even if I
wanted to I'd be losing money so to keep
my profit I need to sell them for
$175 but now my shareholders are upset
because they see my gross margins shrink
from 25% to
177% okay let's go with 18750
that looks terrible on a price tag
$189.99 now last time around the
electronics tariffs were mostly
targeting goods manufactured in China
which then resulted in manufacturers
investing in factories outside of China
so that they could avoid them but
there's a little hidden cost to the
consumers there as well let's say I'm
foxcon now different hat I drop a
quarter of a bill to build a new Factory
in Vietnam there's no Chinese tariffs
there but someone still has to foot the
bill I know I'll just charge $125 for
that GPU now it's less than a150 so I'm
still competitive in the market and in
no time at all consumers will get used
to paying more for the same product more
gravy for me baby obviously that's an
oversimplification but there also are
examples of times when it's played out
just like this the prear RTX 3080 for
instance launched for
$700 and had a die area so the size of
the actual silicon chip of 628 mm the
post tariff RTX 480 launched for
$200 and has a die area of just 379 mm
now some of this price increase can be
traced back to external factors like
higher wafer costs for more advanced
manufacturing process nodes not to
mention the global inflation that is
taken place over the last half a decade
but a big part of it is just plain
charging More For Less now that they've
figured out consumers are willing to pay
and this time around it could be worse
because so many companies Diversified
their manufacturing out of China last
time around there's a lot of Talk
Amongst American policy makers about
implementing import tariffs rather than
just limiting the tariffs to the exports
of a particular country that will result
in manufacturers billing out for both
their Investments that they've made to
diversify their manufacturing and the
tariffs that are being surrendered to
the US government and it's not like the
retailer is going to get caught holding
the bag they're just going to mark up
accordingly and if sales volumes decline
they'll simply order less so now the GPU
from our example that used to cost $125
at the till is
$235 and guess who paid for it you on
Monday November 25th president-elect
Trump announced a 25% tariff on all
Goods coming from Canada as well we'll
have to see if they actually follow
through with that but based on that
announcement our red white and blue
friends are going to want to order your
LT merch right now need a new
screwdriver want to level up your cable
management well now is the perfect time
to grab great deals during cyber weekend
on LT store shop all of our Black Friday
and Cyber Monday specials at lmg gblack
Friday now look I'm not even going to
bother reading comments on this video
because I'm sure that some folks are
going to accuse me of getting political
but math is not political math is math
and as heartless as it sounds the math
says that our standard of living in the
western world is enabled by unfettered
access to cheap overseas labor and if
you think that moving manufacturing back
is going to solve inflation or even
happen at all I have some hard truths
for you one is that Americans don't want
a lot of these jobs tsmc for example has
had a heck of a Time hiring for their
Arizona semiconductor Fab and for some
pretty good reasons one of the most
obvious ones is the misaligned
expectations of work life balance Now
American workers rights are far from
perfect but what they are is world's
better than what you might find
elsewhere around the globe Americans
rightly expect things like limited shift
times mandated vacations the right to
collective bargaining etc etc another
less obvious reason is the eroded
pipeline of qualified applicant it takes
decades to resolve the chicken egg
dilemma and develop the steady stream of
both new talent and new jobs that makes
an entire industry tick it's one of the
reasons that our Labs team has struggled
so much to hire subject matter experts
like if we were in South Korea for
instance and we wanted to hire a display
expert we would be tripping over
applicants here not so much and it isn't
just us ratings for instance has had a
job posting up for a display person for
ages hard truth number two Americans
don't generally want to pay for
americanmade products there are
exceptions many many exceptions
All-American clothing even has this
handy dandy list of companies who make
their products in America many of which
are crushing it I'm personally partial
to my onshore manufactured Darn Tough
socks from Vermont but that doesn't
change that the overwhelming trend is
toward Bargain Basement overseas
marketplaces with tenu surpassing
shopping apps from giants like Amazon
and Walmart earlier this year and more
and more I see an attitude of if it
costs a few dollars more it's a complete
scam a sentiment that actually makes a
ton of sense given the ongoing economic
challenges that have ballooned our cost
of living since realistically the
1980s hard truth number three maybe the
hardest one of all is that even if
Americans wanted these jobs and were
willing to pay a premium for goods that
were manufactured by their friends and
neighbors they don't have enough
neighbors us unemployment is sitting at
about 4% it's not exactly a historic low
and has been creeping up but it is well
below the last sustained high that we
saw during the 2008 financial crisis and
it's not that far above the deepest
historic lows of about
2.5% so I don't know maybe there's a
scenario where folks want to make career
moves into manufacturing roles but what
I suspect is that most don't ask
yourself would I rather do this all day
don't forget it's for minimum wage or
less so that's the math there is a
political conversation to be had here
something around the Deep societal
change that would need to take place in
order to significantly alter the math
but that that's not something I'm going
to touch on so let's come back to should
you buy a PC right now well based on the
rhetoric we're seeing so far might not
be a bad idea the RTX 590 was already
rumored to hit the market at around
2,000 Freedom bucks if the proposed
tariffs go through that could jump to
more like 2500 for parts that are
manufactured outside of China and maybe
even more for anything that's
manufactured within China now Nvidia May
absorb some of this in their margins you
know as a favor to Gamers but they also
might not and you could build a pretty
nice I don't know entire gaming machine
for that much money right now another X
Factor is do you guys remember the last
time I made a video called buy a PC
right now that was right on the eve of a
crypto boom that drove GPU prices into
the stratosphere for years well guess
what's booming again right now look if
you don't have the money at the moment
or you want to hold out for NextGen
don't worry too much this all might end
up being a nothing Burger but if you
were waiting for the right moment to
strike electronics are pretty affordable
out there right now and I expect that
game developers are going to be
targeting current hardware for quite a
few years while we wait for a new
generation of consoles so that 5090
probably won't be needed for a while you
know what we will need though is this
segue to our sponsor War Thunder take to
the skies strike from the sea and
dominate on land with War Thunder
thousands of vehicles each modeled
accurately from their real life
counterparts you'll be immersed in
action thanks to their authentic sound
effects indepth customization options
and realistic damage modeling their
x-ray view can let you see where your
vehicle took damage giving you Vital
Information to make your next engagement
go even more smoothly and if you're
worried that everything sounds too
hardcore they have multiple distinct
modes so whether you're a msome
Enthusiast or a let me just blow up a
few things casual enjoyer there's fun to
be had all around what's best is that
besides their PC and console versions
they have an allnew mobile app for IOS
and Android so you can enjoy
crossplatform enabled gameplay wherever
you are so don't wait join the over 70
million players who enjoy War Thunder
and revel in the destruction use our
Link in the description to get a welcome
bonus pack that includes multiple
premium Vehicles if you guys enjoyed
this video and you want to buy some
parts right now why not check out our
holiday buyers guide it's less of a
holiday guide and more of just a buyer
guide we cover four different price
points and give you a really good
starting point for how to configure a
great gaming PC